Very good, even excellent in all areas, the iPhone 8 seduces by its screen with excellent colorimetry, although its resolution does not reach records on the mobile market. Extremely powerful thanks to its Bionic A11 chip, the smartphone is also very good in the world of multimedia. It is based on a very powerful back camera, presents a correct audio rendering and a autonomy allowing to hold a day without difficulty. We also appreciate its very good sensitivity to the network. This very convincing picture, however, should not make us forget that despite its undeniable success, the iPhone 8 is content to discreetly improve the iPhone 7, whose design it retains – glass back except. Does this mean that we must not pass the course? There will be a tendency to advise iOS enthusiasts to invest if they are equipped with a previous generation iPhone, or if they are looking to ensure longer compatibility with future versions of the OS. As for the owners of the iPhone 7...they may be disappointed by the few improvements that are really noticeable on a daily basis.
The advantages and disadvantages
Screen with excellent colorimetry
Very good photo and video performance 4K at 60 fps
Very powerful A11 chip
Lack of design inspiration
Perfectible audio rendering
Our detailed test
While the market was essentially waiting for the Apple’s “birthday” smartphone, Apple has as every year presented a new iPhone 8, a very logical update of the iPhone 7 released at the same time in 2016. Master stroke or too discreet revision? We screened this iPhone 8 in our lab.
One year after the iPhone 7 series, Apple is renewing its smartphones with an iPhone 8 range of which the smallest model interests us here. Unlike the iPhone X, which offers clear changes compared to the standard model, the smartphone is in line with the iPhone 7 whose features it perfects.
On the menu, a screen similar to that of its predecessor, namely a 4.7-inch IPS panel displaying 750 x 1334 pixels, in a body now made of metal and glass. The smartphone swaps the A10 Fusion chip against the A11 Bionic, coupled with 2 GB of RAM, while its storage space comes in 64 or 256 GB, while the iPhone 7 offered versions of 32, 128 and 256 GB. The smartphone still carries a 12-megapixel camera with an f/1.8 aperture lens, with autofocus and 4K filming capability, while a 7-megapixel camera sits on the front. Note also the support of Bluetooth 5.0 on this model still without jack jack, but supplied with a Lightning adapter, and of course the support of the LTE network (category 16). The NFC, which can be used with Apple Pay, is also part of the game, as is the TouchID button with haptic return on the front. Note that Apple does not mention the battery capacity of its iPhone 8, as usual, but that the first disassemblies of the smartphone have highlighted its 1821 mAh. The induction charge (Qi) makes its appearance this year, without forgetting the waterproofing maintenance (IP68) appeared on the iPhone 7.
If you go from an iPhone 7 to an iPhone 8, you may not notice the differences between the two versions. From the front, nothing or almost changes, since the overall dimensions of the two models are practically similar (138.4 x 67.3 x 7.3 mm in the iPhone 8 compared to 138.3 x 67.1 x 7.1 mm in the iPhone 7) and that the Touch ID button like the front camera retain their format and location. The slices are also similar, and the buttons (volume and silent on the left, power on the right) do not move one iota. Understand that the few tens of millimetres that separate the two generations of mobiles will not force you to invest in a new hull.
In hand, however, the iPhone 8 is slightly heavier than its predecessor, with 148 grams compared to 138 grams for the iPhone 7. In particular, the use of glass on the back of the device, which replaces the metal used until then. Here, Apple puts itself up to date with a glass signed Corning, but whose exact reference remains secret. We will still tend to recommend the use of a case, even if the smartphone, with its camera still slightly protruding on the back, does not slide particularly when it is placed on a flat surface. Note also the presence of an oleophobic coating which is certainly not infallible, but which allows to limit the traces of fingers – at least on our gold version. The micro-scratches, they, unfortunately appear very quickly
In these conditions, it is difficult to speak of true renewal. Despite a material change that is its only (and very small) risk-taking, the iPhone 8 looks like the iPhone 7, which itself was, without a jack jack, a repeat of the iPhone 6s… modeled on the iPhone 6. In short, four generations for a single design, or almost. For a little more novelty, it will be necessary to move towards the iPhone X, whose operation and the tariff are much less accessible.
Few changes are noted between the screen of the iPhone 7 and that of the iPhone 8. It retains the definition of 750 x 1334 pixels of its predecessor on a diagonal of 4.7 inches (measured by our Lab at 4.8 inches), for a resolution of 321 dpi. We are obviously far from the leading players of the genre, who happily exceed the 500 dpi, but it is clear that on the relatively small diagonal of the mobile, the details are perfectly legible.
This IPS slab also has the merit of displaying a very good colorimetry, on the DCI-P3 space, promises Apple. On the space s-RGB, only very small deviations with red (delta U'V' of 0.0054)
magenta or green (0.0022). Finally, the only differences, however small, are to be looked for on the blue side (delta U'V' of 0.01116)… and they are the least visible to the human eye. The average delta U'V' of this screen does not exceed 0.008, which is excellent. And all the more so since this slab provides an excellent contrast of 400:5 and, in a more classic way, 1599:1, superior moreover to the promise of Apple. The contrast is slightly better on the iPhone 8 than on the iPhone 8 Plus, but the gamma remains correct, without more.
Let’s finish with directivity, that is to say the angles of vision provided by this new iPhone. Although not bad, it does not rank among the best students, because of its tendency to darken markedly from 45°, angle where it loses 79% of brightness. At 30°, it is already losing 59%: even if it remains legible, it is clearly darkening.
This screen is also pleasant to use, thanks to its coating that allows the finger to slide comfortably, but also to its 3D Touch technology. This, by recognizing several pressure levels, allows you to quickly access sub-features of applications by clicking on their icon. We regret however that after four generations without a real redesign, the screen edges of this model have not been reduced.
Users of an older generation iPhone will probably have already downloaded iOS 11, compatible with older generations, from the iPhone 5S. For others, the iPhone 8 generation is an opportunity to discover a version of the OS based on a little more advanced ergonomics. This is evidenced by the control centre accessible by a sweep upwards, dotted with clear icons, in large format. The arrival of iOS 11 is also synonymous with improvements on the Messages side, which gains faster access to emojis and other stickers. 
But above all, it marks the beginning of a revisited App Store. It adopts a more modern “map” format, with visuals of larger titles, a slightly more thematic storage and, overall, a clearer interface to consult. The various sort parameters are now located at the bottom of the screen. More discreetly, these are “smart” options that are now available, such as automatically adding events to the calendar.
Two other notable novelties are also part of the game. First, a native file explorer makes its debut here. Automatically linked to iCloud, it can be linked to other services, like Google Drive. We will not be able to say that the search works perfectly, access for example to documents shared with the user on Drive not working on our iPhone 8, but being effective on the iPhone 8 Plus also tested by the editors.

Second novelty, the integration of ARKit in iOS 11, as Apple announced during the WWDC last June. These tools, made available by Apple to developers who want to use augmented reality in their apps, are available on devices from the iPhone 6s. On the iPhone 8, there is already a fairly complete range of compatible apps, although not all titles are of obvious interest. Some are inconclusive, especially when the elements to be integrated into reality are small or the flat surfaces are cluttered with small objects. But overall, it’s a good start that convinces especially in practical uses, for example to simulate the integration of furniture into your interior. Not surprisingly, the smartphone, whose computing power and camera are heavily used, tends to heat up quickly when augmented reality is activated.
As a reminder, the iPhone 8 – like the iPhone 8 Plus – uses its new chip, namely an A11 chipset with a 10 nm hexacore CPU and an M11 motion coprocessor and a GPU designed in-house, for the first time at Apple. An important point since this GPU can potentially improve the tools that use Machine Learning to improve the performance of its tools such as Siri. The whole is accompanied by 2 GB of RAM. Spoiler: it’s a combination that hits the spot, both in game and in more classic use.

Understand that it will be very difficult to take in default this iPhone 8, which has worn like a charm at all our test levels, now above 23 fps even at our maximum level of requirement (response time of 42.6 ms). At the lowest performance level, it shows 32 fps (30.8 ms of runtime), while at our second level, it drops to only 30 fps (33.2 ms), then to 27 fps (36.6 ms) when executing complex processes. Suffice to say that the other smartphones, even very high-end, go down well below, the Samsung Galaxy Note 8 does not exceed 3 fps to perform tasks very demanding in resources for example. For comparison, the iPhone 8 plus displays 2 fps more on average than the iPhone 8.
Few changes on the side of the photo, at least considering the data sheet of this iPhone 8, compared to the iPhone 7. It remains equipped with a sensor of 12 megapixels associated with a stabilized optics, six elements (aperture at f/1.8 also) and a flash with four LEDs. So far, nothing new under Apple’s sun.
Based on our Labo tests, we can confirm that the excellent dive observed last year on the iPhone 7 has improved further, as we measured 1,455 pairs of lines per height. The device ranks among the best of the moment, with a score just below the recent Samsung Galaxy Note 8.
Its optics concede only a very small distortion and a very slight vignetting, while the chromatic aberrations are to the absent subscribers.
The smartphone also behaves very well in terms of colorimetry, since it restores with a very low deltaE (0.5) the colors to daylight. Its automatic white balance, as we have measured it, is reasonably effective, but less easily in light yellow and dark yellow environments. In sunflower fields or on the sand, a manual white balance will be preferred! To do this, remember that it will have to go through a third-party application, since the native app of iOS does not have a Pro mode that can be disengaged. We will console ourselves by noting that this camera has a very good sensitivity, with little noise to note, but an exposure time that lengthens quickly when the brightness drops: be careful to stabilize the smartphone to avoid blurred motion.
Remember that iOS 11 still allows to save snapshots in JPEG, but also in compressed HEIF format. The app of this new version of the OS makes it possible to make Live Photos (a mini-video of 1.5 seconds before the shot) and natively integrates filters. Just swipe your finger up to make them appear, while a “Square” mode will allow Instagram fans to capture their photos in the right format.
Let’s finish this very satisfying overview with the flash, correct without real more. It is relatively uniform, despite a classic vignetting in the mobile universe, but lacks above all power.
In video, Apple plays records since it continues to offer a recording in 4K, but now at 60 fps.
Remember that just like the iPhone 7, the iPhone 8 has no headphone jack in 3.5 mm jack format, although the smartphone comes with a Lightning adapter for hardcore wired headphones (as well as with brand EarPods that come with the pommed terminal). Correct without more, the audio performance of the smartphone is marked by a speaker at average power, measured at 70 dB, and associated with a frequency response leaving aside the bass below 500 Hz and the treble above 5 kHz.
The sensitivity of the iPhone 8 is 137 mV, which requires more volume to listen, but the distortion is limited. In short, music listening will have to go through a dedicated headset of good quality to take advantage of the formats supported by the smartphone (including the Apple Lossless and the FLAC which is finally natively compatible).
Compatible with LTE as it should be, and with all hexagonal frequency bands (be it the 3.7, 20 and the recent 28), corresponding to the frequencies of the 700 MHz band. We expected no less of such a high-end smartphone.
The device shows itself not very directive, which allows a use in any orientation. On the other hand, its true strength concerns its sensitivity, excellent, which allows its use where others do not receive well, in the metro or in the countryside.
Despite its battery less than 2000 mAh, the iPhone 8 is quite enduring, as long as one does not overstress its most demanding options. We measured, all networks cut and with the brightness set to 200 cd/m2, 7h43 usage before the iPhone 8 goes off. The best of the genre are certainly in the ten hours, but it is good to note that Apple did not lie by indicating that its new model was at least as correct as its iPhone 7, which capped at 7:16.
The iPhone 8 also introduces compatibility with the Qi wireless charge (up to 7.5W), although the AirPower charging station, which allows you to place your smartphone, Apple Watch or AirPods simultaneously, is not yet available. 
Not surprisingly, you can use it with any third-party brand charger, but remember that the charge will be slower than in wired version. We have tried it on our side with a Samsung Fast Charge charger successfully: this will put the smartphone on a desk or bedside table, but do not expect to grab in a few minutes a few battery points when you need to leave quickly.